Introduction
In this guide you are going to learn about the fundamentals of plotting univariate and bivariate distribution data using the Seaborn library.

By the end of this guide you will be able to implement the following concepts:

Visualizing a univariate distribution data
Visualizing a bivariate distribution data
Visualizing pairwise relationships in a dataset
The Baseline
In this guide we are going to use the following libraries:

Syntax

# Importing necessary libraries
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import seaborn as sns
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
Visualizing a Univariate Distribution Data
A univariate distribution as its name suggests is build upon a quantitative variable. It can be visualized either using a histogram, a kernel density estimation, a rug plot or combining all of them.

Let us generate some random data and learn to plot a univariate distribution on it using all the above mentioned approaches.

Generating Univariate Data

# Setting a random seed to receive same data everytime
np.random.seed(42)
# Generating the random data
uni = np.random.rand(2000)
1. Histogram
A histogram is built in the Seaborn library using the distplot method. The distplot method is also responsible for the building of other univariate plots.

# Setting the figure size
plt.figure(figsize=(8, 5))
# Building the histogram
sns.distplot(uni,
             bins=100,        # Number of bins
             kde=False,        # Whether to fit KDE plot or not <=> alternate of kdeplot
             rug=False,        # Vertical lines on each observation <=> alternate of rugplot
             color='g')
# Labelling the title
plt.title('Histogram', weight='bold', fontsize=16)
# Displaying the figure
plt.show()
hist

2. Kernel Density Estimation Plot
In the above figure notice the shape of histogram peaks, using the Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) plot you can fit the best line for the data. KDE plot is built on the histogram bin peaks by default using the distplot method. Therefore, you can either use kde=True or remove kde=False from the method. Also, make sure to pass hist=False to disable the histogram from the plot.

# Setting the figure size
plt.figure(figsize=(8, 5))
# Building the KDE plot
sns.distplot(uni,
             bins=100,
             hist=False,    # Disables the histogram
             rug=False,
             color='g')
# Labelling the title
plt.title('KDE plot', weight='bold', fontsize=16)
# Displaying the figure
plt.show()
KDE

You can also build the above figure using the kdeplot method as shown:

# Using the kdeplot method
sns.kdeplot(uni, color='g')
3. Rug plot
The rug plot provides the density of observations using vertical lines on an axis (usually bottom X-axis). In the below code we take only initial 50 observations for better understanding.

# Setting the figure size
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 3))
# Building the rug plot
sns.distplot(uni[:50],    # Initial 50 observations
             bins=100,
             hist=False,    # Disables the histogram
             kde=False,     # Disables the KDE plot
             rug=True,
             color='g')
# Labelling the title
plt.title('Rug plot', weight='bold', fontsize=16)
# Displaying the figure
plt.show()
rug

Alternatively, you can also use the rugplot method to achieve the above figure:

# Using the rugplot method
sns.rugplot(uni[:50], color='g')
4. Combining All Univariate Plots
We can also merge all three plots into a one plot. However, KDE plotting consumes more time for a larger dataset so it should be avoided.

# Setting the figure size
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 5))
# Combining all plots
sns.distplot(uni,
             bins=100,
             hist=True,    
             kde=True,    
             rug=True,
             color='g')
# Labelling the title
plt.title('Combining all univariate plots', weight='bold', fontsize=16)
# Displaying the figure
plt.show()
